Docs: Update "Manage Users" to add missing functionality and clarification (#8981)
opf/openproject: docs/system-admin-guide/users-permissions/users/README.md

keywords: manage users, lock, unlock, invite, language
---

# Manage users

To manage users click on your avatar (top right corner) and select "Administration". Select "Users and Permissions", then select "Users". The list of current users is shown.

> 

Reviewer: Please change this to:
`The users list provides an overview of all users in OpenProject. You can create new users, make changes to existing user accounts, block or delete users from the system. The number of users for your subscription is thus not bound to names. For example, if you block a user you can add a new one without upgrading.
To manage users click on your avatar (top right corner) and select *Administration*. Select *Users and Permissions -> Users*. The list of current users is shown.`
(I would keep the first part. This is also important because it contains keywords for the search)

Author: Accepted

<div class="glossary">
**User** is defined as a person (described by an identifier) who uses OpenProject. Users can become project members by assigning them a role and adding them via the project settings.
</div>

> In the Community edition there is no limit to the number of users. In subscription editions the limit for users is given in your subscription.

Reviewer: `In the Community Edition there is no limit to the number of users. In Enterprise editions (cloud and on-premises) the user limit is based on your subscription.`

Author: Accepted

| Topic                                           | Content                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [User list](#user-list)                         | Manage all users in OpenProject.                             |
| [Filter users](#filter-users)                   | Filter users in the list.                                    |
| [Lock and unlock users](#lock-and-unlock-users) | Block a user permanently in the system or unlock a user.     |
| [Delete users](#delete-users)                   | Delete a user from the system.                               |
| [Manage user settings](#manage-user-settings)   | Manage user details.                                         |
| [Create users](#create-users)                   | Create new users.                                            |

> | [Authentication](#authentication)               | Set and use authentication methods.                          |

Reviewer: I would suggest the order below because it's the usual user lifecycle (from creation over managing to deletion) and because (as far as I see it) most people would not delete users too often to avoid having "deleted user" everywhere:
```suggestion
| Topic                                           | Content                                                      |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [User list](#user-list)                         | Manage all users in OpenProject.                             |
| [Filter users](#filter-users)                   | Filter users in the list.                                    |
| [Lock and unlock users](#lock-and-unlock-users) | Block a user permanently in the system or unlock a user.     |
| [Create users](#create-users)                   | Create new users.                                            |
| [Manage user settings](#manage-user-settings)   | Manage user details.                                         |
| [Authentication](#authentication)               | Set and use authentication methods.                          |
| [Delete users](#delete-users)                   | Delete a user from the system.                               |`
```

Author: Accepted

| [Manage user settings](#manage-user-settings)   | Manage user settings, e.g. language, projects, groups, global roles, rate history, avatar, two-factor authentication. |
| [Lock and unlock users](#lock-and-unlock-users) | Block a user permanently in the system or unlock a user.     |
| [Delete users](#delete-users)                   | Delete a user from the system.                               |
| [Manage user settings](#manage-user-settings)   | Manage user details.                                         |
| [Create users](#create-users)                   | Create new users.                                            |
| [Authentication](#authentication)               | Set and use authentication methods.                          |

## User list

You will see the list of all users in your OpenProject with detailed information, such as user name, first name, last name, e-mail address.
The User List is where users are managed. They can be added, edited or deleted from this list, which can be filtered if required.

> You will also see if a user is an Administrator in the system.

Reviewer: I would keep this as it's important and change it to `You will also see whether a user is a system administrator in OpenProject.`

Author: Accepted

> ### Filter users

Reviewer: the convention in the docs is that only H2 headings appear in the table of contents at the top. Please make sure to either change this to a H2 heading (`## Filter users`) or to remove it from the table above.

Author: Accepted

> * **Status** - select from Active, All or Locked Temporarily. Each selection shows the number of users. There maybe other status values depending on settings.

Reviewer: The last sentence can be removed.

Author: Accepted

> * **Name** - enter any text; this can contain a "%" wild card for 0 or more characters. The filter applies to Username, First Name, Last Name and Email.

Reviewer: Please change the last sentence to `The filter applies to user name, first name, last name and email address.`

Author: Accepted

![filter users](image-20200115155456033.png)

## Lock and unlock users

> Handling locked users is also done from the list. To disable a users access click the **Lock permanently** link next to a user. Use the **Unlock** link to restore the users access.

Reviewer: Please change the second and third sentence to `To disable a user's access click the **Lock permanently** link next to the user. Use the **Unlock** link to restore the user's access.`

Author: Accepted

> If you are using [Enterprise cloud](../../../cloud-edition-guide) or [Enterprise on-premises](../../../enterprise-edition-guide) you will then have a new user available to add to the system within your booked plan, or will consume a user from that plan.

Reviewer: Suggestion: `If you are using [Enterprise cloud](../../../cloud-edition-guide) or [Enterprise on-premises](../../../enterprise-edition-guide) locking a user will make a new user available to add to the system within your booked plan.`
I think the other way round is already clear.

Author: Accepted

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
**Note**: The previous activities from a locked user will still be displayed in the system.
</div>

![System-admin-guide_lock-users](System-admin-guide_lock-users.png)

> If a user has repeated failed logins their user will be locked and a "Reset failed logins" link is shown in the user list. Click the link to unlock it now, or wait and it is unlocked automatically. See [Other authentication settings](../../authentication/authentication-settings/#other-authentication-settings) for failed attempts and time blocked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user has repeated failed logins the user will be locked and a "Reset failed logins" link is shown in the user list. Click the link to unlock it now, or wait and it will be unlocked automatically. See [Other authentication settings](../../authentication/authentication-settings/#other-authentication-settings) for failed attempts and time blocked.
```

Author: Accepted

### Delete users

Two [settings](../settings/#user-deletion/) allow users to be deleted from the system:
* **User accounts deletable by admins** - if ticked, a "Delete" button is shown on the user details page.
* **Users allowed to delete their accounts** - if ticked, a "Delete account" menu entry is shown in the "My Account" page.

> To delete another user's account open the [user list](#user-list). Click on the **user name** of the user which you want to delete. Click the "Delete" button at the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete another user's account open the [user list](#user-list). Click on the **user name** of the user which you want to delete permanently. Click the **Delete** button at the top right.
```

Author: Accepted

![Sys-admin-delete-user](Sys-admin-delete-user.png)

You will then be asked to type in the username in order to delete the user permanently from the system, then confirm this with your password.

![delete user](image-20200115162533470.png)

<div class="alert alert-info" role="alert">
**Note**: Deleting a user account is an irreversible action and cannot be reversed. The previous activities from this user will still be displayed in the system but reassigned to "deleted user".
</div>

## Manage user settings

> You can manage individual user details if you click on the user name in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manage individual user details if you click on the user name in the list. These settings will overwrite the individual user's settings set in their My Account settings.
```

Author: Accepted

### General settings

On the General tab the following fields are shown:

* **Status** - this is set by the system.

> * **Username** - this defaults to the email for a new user. It can be changed on this page. Users cannot change their own username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Username** - this defaults to the email address for a new user (unless the user used the self registration. It can be changed on this page. Users cannot change their own username.
```

Author: Accepted

* **First name**, **Last name**, **Email** - these fields are filled from the new user page. Users can change them on their Profile page; they are mandatory.
* **Language** - this defaults from the [user settings](../settings/#default-preferences). Users can change this on their Profile page.

> * **Administrator** - Activate or deactivate this permission. Users cannot change this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Administrator** - Activate or deactivate this global role. Users cannot change this.
```

Author: Accepted

* **Custom Fields** - if these have been created they are shown here.

> * **User consent** - if this has been [configured](../settings/#user-consent) the consent status is hown here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **User consent** - if this has been [configured](../settings/#user-consent) the consent status is shown here.
```

Author: Accepted

* **Authentication** - the content of this section depends on the type of [authentication method](#authentication) being used.

> * **Email notifications** - users can change these on their Profile page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Email notifications** - this defaults from the [Email notification settings](../..//email/#email-notifications-settings). Users can change this on their Profile page.
```

Author: Accepted

* **Preferences** - users can change these on their Profile page. Time zone defaults from chosen language.

> **Do not forget** to "Save" your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not forget to **Save** your changes.
```
fyi: the convention is that the names of buttons are to be shown as **bold**

Author: Accepted

![Sys-admin-user-settings](Sys-admin-user-settings.png)

### Add users to a project

In order to see and work in a project, a user has to be a member of a project and needs to be added with a certain role to this project.

On the **Projects** tab, select the new project from the drop-down list, choose the **roles** for this project and click the blue **Add** button.

![Sys-admin-add-project](Sys-admin-add-project.gif)

### Add users to groups

On the **Groups** tab you can see the groups the user belongs to. If a group is shown, click a group name link. If no groups are shown, click the **Manage groups** link to [edit groups](../groups).

> ![add users to a group](image-20200115165406439.png)

Reviewer: I will change this screenshot in the future

### Global roles

In order to add a global role to a user, at least [one global role needs to be created](../roles-permissions) in the system (a role with the "Global role" field ticked).

On the **Global roles** tab, select or de-select the global role(s) for this user. Click the **Add** button.

### Rate history

> The rate history shows the rates applied to the user. The **Default rate** applies on projects with no rate defined. All projects that the user is a member of are listed with the users rates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rate history shows the hourly rates that have been defined for the user. The "Default rate" is applied to projects with no rate defined. All projects that the user is a member of are listed with the user's rates.
```

Author: Accepted

### Avatar

> The **Avatar** tab shows the default icon to be shown for this user. A custom image can be uploaded as the avatar. The user can manage this in their Profile. This feature can be disabled in [settings](../avatars).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Avatar** tab shows the default icon to be shown for this user. A custom image can be uploaded as the avatar. In addition, the users can also use their [Gravatar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravatar). The user can manage this in their Profile. These features can be disabled in the [avatar settings](../avatars).
```

Author: Accepted

## Create users

New users can be created and configured by an administrator, a single user or multiple users. A person can create their own user from the home page by clicking on the "Sign in" button (top right), then on the "Create a new account" link in the sign in box.

### Create user (Sign in link)

Click the "Create a new account" link in the sign in box. In the "Create a new account" window, enter values in all fields (they cannot be left blank). The Email field must be a valid email address that is not used in this system. Click the "Create" button. Your account is created but must be activated by the administrator.

> ### Create user (Administration)

Reviewer: I like the idea of clarifying the different options to create/invite users and to show the self-registration option, too. Thank you for that!
I will probably rework some of this chapter (little changes of the structure) after the pull request is merged as it would be too complicated to do this via review comments.

Author: Accepted - yes, changing the structure does make it difficult!

* You can phone the new user or send them an email, not using OpenProject, to give them the password. In this case it is more important to tick the enforce password change tickbox.
* Tick the Assign random password, and probably the enforce password change tickbox. When the details are saved OpenProject will send an email to the new user with their password.

### Account activation by email

Leave all fields blank. When the details are saved OpenProject will send an email to the new user with a link inviting the user to OpenProject. They click the link to get the registration page to complete creating their account.

### Resend user invitation via email

If a user did not receive the email invitation, you can send the invitation to the user again if needed. In the user list, click on the user name to whom you want to resend the email with the invitation link to the system.

In the top right, click the **Send invitation** button in order to send the email once again.

![Sys-admin-resend-invitation](Sys-admin-resend-invitation.png)

> ## FAQ - What do I configure before I add users?

Reviewer: Great idea! 
I would suggest to move this whole section ("FAQ - What do I..." to another place. 
I moved it to https://github.com/opf/openproject/commit/d899e4e39a9b704ed1632c8d9b7622c4c0b5bb14 .
I hope that's okay for you?

Author: Accepted. I have removed it from my changes
